# Dissolve: Technical Steering Meeting
### Fri 11/06/2021 13:30 - 14:30
### Zoom

### Attending

- Tristan Youngs (TY)
- Adam Washington (AW)
- Daniel Nixon (DN)
- Anders Markvaardsen (AM)

#### Apologies

- Lamar Moore (LM)

### Agenda

1. Sprint Review, weeks 22-23
2. Version 0.9
6. AOB

## 1. Sprint Review, weeks 22-23
- TY noted that the active PRs reflect the last additions to the upcoming version 0.8, and that progress is on track.
- TY suggested that, once the current PRs have been merged in, the next week should be given over to final testing of the code and updating of the user manual, ahead of a release towards the end of week 24.

## 2. Version 0.9

- TY reiterated that the plan for version 0.9 was to implement the necessary adjustments to allow the effective treatment of porous silicas, to overhaul the GUI, and to address the MPI/threads implementation.
- TY highlighted that the "science drivers" for version 0.9 are only small, and the real effort is to go in to making the GUI more user friendly. He went on to say that version 0.8 should be left to settle and be tested by the user community while this work progresses, in order to get a feel for the next "big feature" to be added in version 1.0.
- AW agreed that this was a sensible plan.
- TY asked AW if he would be happy to take the lead on the move to Qt6, and subsequently on to QtChart - AW agreed.
- TY took on the job of building / testing the Qt6 version (once ready) on IDAaaS.
- The team do not anticipate that moving to Qt6 would throw up any significant blockers, but TY raised the possibility of delaying the move to Qt6 as it is relatively new, and make the move to QtChart within the current Qt5-based code.
- DN felt that Qt6 was in a complete enough state to replace all functionality present within Qt5, and that the attempt should at least be made to go to Qt6 in order to discover any potential issues.
- The team agreed.
- TY pointed out that a significant amount of custom code would be removed by the move to QtChart, but that some functionality (e.g. workspaces) may need to be heavily reworked or, alternatively, completely removed in favour of paring down the scope of Dissolve to simulation analysis rather than general data analysis.

## 6. AOB

- It was agreed that the next TSC would be held at the beginning of the w/c 28th June owing to prior commitments of team members, coupled with the need for an early review of progress in respect of moving to Qt6.
